Right so, let's go ahead and actually
create our first next application.
Now throughout this workshop I am referring
to these slides, you'll have it in the workshop material.
And along with the slides, there are notes tucked away.
But also there's a git repo that you can check out
that are tagged which has kinda this code already in place
and you can check out the tags
throughout the whole of the workshop.
There are links up in the top of the corner of the slides
so you can follow like that, or you can just
you know, copy and paste as you go along,
but hopefully that source is useful.
So, before we actually even do an npm in it
we need to, like step zero is actually Node.
So make sure that you have the latest version
LTS version of Node, today it's currently eight.
One day it's gonna be 10, but get the latest version of Node
and when you've downloaded that or however you instal Node
you'll also have a copy of npm.
Which then means that we can do these commands.
So I'm using npn in it dash F which will create
an empty package dot json file for me
with a bunch of defaults.
So you can do npn in it without the F
it will prompt for you things like the project name,
description, that kind of thing,
dash F just force does that for us, and
now the next step is to instal the dependency.
So we're gonna go ahead and instal the latest version
of next, react, and react-dom.
Those three things are required to get this project to run.
Now, the site team put out a canary version of next
which is kinda the upcoming features,
under the @canary tag. So if you want to try out
some new features you could do npm instal next @cancary
and that will give you the latest version.
Today, this is installing version five.
I believe version 5.1 is right 'round the corner
some really cool stuff in there, including something
their referring to as universal config
which we will look at later on in this workshop.
But it's quite possible in the time you're watching this,
5.1 will be the staple release.
So, now that's installed, I have all my packages
but I'm not quite ready to go yet.
I need to, I need to add the start scripts.
So I'm gonna open up my code editor
okay, and I need to insert some scripts here
so I go over here, I just copy and paste just these bits
And so I have three commands I'm gonna use:
dev, build, and start.
Dev is what we use for logo development
includes hot module reloading, it invokes errors
all that kinda good stuff that we need to debug with.
Build is like a precommand that Next would use
when it moves to production, to repair all of
the Next assets and all the jobs
that actually makes it work.
And then start is for production.
So we will look at releasing into
production later on in this series.
So, let's go back to the command line npm run dev
it's gonna fail because we don't
have any code to run, right?
All we've done is put a package file there
there's none in the outcode place
so we're gonna do that next.
Okay, so the Setup step one is get the packages in place
Setup step 2 is actually put a file in place.
So we need to have a pages directory
and I'll come on to explaining what that means
and we are gonna add a file called index.js
and it's just gonna contain this, so let's do that now.
Mkdir pages, okay and in here I'm gonna do
new file, index.js, pop that in there, save.
And I'm gonna do npm, run, dev.
And that's gonna compile and prepare the next server.
So let's pull over to side, let's have a look,
so welcome!
And if you go back to the server we can see,
just scroll up a little bit,
it sees that there was a request for that
index page, and compile that and serve it into the browser.
So that is a next app running.
And like I said, zero config,
this has got a hot reload built in so welcome to my workshop
okay, so didn't have to hit refresh
just injects that straight onto the page
If I had multiple components it would
inject just that component.
The other thing I want to show you is
that this is actually service I've rendered first,
and then rendered in the browser if required,
we just bring up another terminal down here
ponies, I'm just gonna do a curl, oops not that one
lynx, there we go, lynx dump is just
giving me a text dump of what's on that URL
you can see, that's this text being delivered from
the server you can see it in the network requests as well,
over here, network, preview relational coming over the wire
if you dig through this you should be able to see it
if you go, welcome to my workshop, fully hydrated
react application. That's it!
So, you know, if your entire website is just
a single paged plain text app that's all you have to do
you don't have to watch anymore videos!
However, if you want to learn about URLs, debugging,
you know making, this a lot more interesting,
then, you know, keep watching.